# General rules {#other-rules status=ready}  


## Protocol

### Deployment technique

We use Docker containers to package, deploy, and run the applications on the physical Duckietown platform as well as on the cloud for simulation. Base Docker container images are provided and distributed via [Docker HUB][dockerhub].

[dockerhub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/duckietown/

A *Challenges Server* server is used to collect and queue all submitted programs. The *simulation evaluation agents* execute each queued program as they become available. Submissions that pass the simulation environment will be queued for execution in the robotariums.

<!-- <div figure-id="fig:dockerflow">
\input{dockerflow.tex}
<figcaption>Submission, Deployment, and Execution Flow
</figcaption>
</div> -->

Access to Robotarium will be granted once submitted code passes the simulation stage of the competition.


For validation of submitted code and evaluation for finals at NIPS a surprise environment will be employed. This is to discourage overfitting to any particular Duckietown.


### Submission of entries

Upon [enrollment in the competition](https://www.duckietown.org/research/ai-driving-olympics/get-started), participants can submit their code in the form of a docker container to a task or module of the AI-DO. Scripts will be provided for creating the container image in a conforming way.

The system will schedule to run the code on the cloud on the challenges selected by the user, and, if simulations pass, on the robotariums.

Participants can submit entries as many times as they would like. Access control policies are to be implemented, should certain participants monopolize the computational and physical resources available.

Participants are required to open source their solutions source code. If auxiliary training data are used to train the models, that data must be made available.

Submitted code will be evaluated in simulation and if sufficient on physical robotariums. Scores and logs generated with submitted code will be made available.


### Simulators

[Simulation code](https://github.com/duckietown/gym-duckietown/) is available as open source for everybody to use on computers that they control.

TODO: Pointer to this

Amazon AWS has made cloud resources available to run the cloud simulations and the cloud learning. The access to these resources might be rationed if the utilization exceeds the projections.

### Robotarium test and validation

<!-- If there are $n$ robotariums available, $n-1$ robotariums can be used for training and testing, while 1 robotarium is used for validation. -->

When an experiment is run in a training/testing robotarium, the participants receive, in addition to the score, detailed feedback, including logs, telemetry, videos, etc.

The sensory data generated by the robots is continuously recorded and becomes available immediately to the entire community.

When an experiment is run in a validation robotarium, the only output to the user is the test score and minimal statistics (number of collisions, number of rule violations, etc.)

### Leaderboards

After each run in a robotarium, the participants can see the metrics statistics on the [competition scoring website](https://challenges.duckietown.org).


## Eligibility

Employees and affiliates of Motional/SwissRe are ineligible from participation in the competition. Employees and affiliates of Motional/SwissRe may submit baseline solutions that will be reported in a special leaderboard.

Students of ETH Zürich and TTIC, are eligible to participate in the competition as part of coursework, if they do not work in the organization of the competition.

## Intellectual property

After the competition in the beginning of 2019, we can ask you to contribute a paper to a forthcoming book detailing the lessons learned and successful approaches in the AI Driving Olympics.
