# Using the Evaluator {#evaluator status=ready}

This section describes how to use the Challenges evaluators.


## Evaluators {#evaluator-intro}

An evaluator is a machine that is in charge of evaluating the protocols.

You can see the [list of connected evaluators here][list].

[list]: https://challenges.duckietown.org/v4/humans/evaluators

## Running your own evaluator {#evaluator-run}

We have several evaluators online that process jobs.

If you want to avoid waiting in the queue for to long, you can run your own evaluator.

The command line is:

    $ dts challenges evaluator
    
This evaluator will connect to the server and execute preferentially your submissions.



## Advanced options for evaluator {#evaluator-advanced}


### Naming evaluator {#evaluator-advanced-name}

Use the option `--name` to name the evaluator instance:

    $ dts challenges evaluator --name ![a name]
    
Otherwise the name is going to be autogenerated.

For example:

    $ dts challenges evaluator --name Instance1 &
    $ dts challenges evaluator --name Instance2 &

### Run a specific submission {#evaluator-advanced-specific}


Run the evaluator on a specific submission:

    $ dts challenges evaluator --submission ![ID]

This evaluates a specific submission.

Note that to force re-evaluation of a submission, you must first [reset the submission](#cli-reset).
Also note that you cannot re-evaluate a submission that has been "retired".


### (Advanced) Features specification {#evaluator-advanced-features}

The option `--features` is useful to force the identification of specific features.

For example, you can pretend that you have an NVidia GPU using:

    $ dts challenges evaluator --features 'gpu: 1'
    
You can find the list of features [here](#evaluation-features). 
